Title: RUBIO: This Is Our Hemisphere -- and President Trump Will Not Allow Our Security to be Threatened
Source: The White House
URL: https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/01/rubio-this-is-our-hemisphere-and-president-trump-will-not-allow-our-security-to-be-threatened/
Date shown on page: January 4, 2026
Retrieval: web.open 2026-06-30

Relevant extracted page text:

"This morning, Secretary of State Marco Rubio joined multiple news programs to discuss the Trump Administration's decisive operation that successfully apprehended indicted narcoterrorist and illegitimate former Venezuelan dictator Nicolas Maduro. Secretary Rubio underscored President Donald J. Trump's ironclad commitment to preventing the Western Hemisphere from becoming a safe haven for drug traffickers, Iranian proxies, or hostile regimes that endanger our national security -- declaring the days of weakness are over and the U.S. will deploy every tool to eradicate these threats from our backyard."

Rubio quote: "There's not a war. We are at war against drug trafficking organizations -- not a war against Venezuela."

Rubio quote: "We don't have U.S. forces on the ground in Venezuela. They were on the ground for about two hours when they went to capture Maduro... What the President is saying is very simple -- and that is as President of the United States, he is not going to go around telling people what he's not going to do."

Rubio quote: "This was not an action that required congressional approval. In fact, it couldn't require congressional approval because this was not an invasion. This is not an extended military operation... We will seek congressional approval for actions that require congressional approval. Otherwise, they'll get congressional notification."

Rubio quote: "We retain all the options we had before this raid and this capture and this arrest... until such time as changes are made."

Rubio quote: "Maduro is not just an indicted drug trafficker; he was an illegitimate president. He was not the head of state. I continue to see these media reports referring to him as 'President Maduro' and the 'head of state.' He was not the head of state."

This extraction preserves both supportive and adverse official language: ground presence is expressly confirmed, but current presence and invasion/extended-operation characterizations are denied.