Associated Press report text captured during defendant argument.

Title: Handwriting on newly released note matches one found after Epstein's death, experts tell AP
Source URL: https://apnews.com/article/ed67aedee5d8c1aff1b862e2aeb399ba
Published date from search/fetch: Sat May 9 01:23:24 2026 UTC
Location: New York, New York, United States

Material captured text:

NEW YORK (AP) - A note that a former cellmate said he discovered after Jeffrey Epstein's first suspected jail suicide attempt was all but certainly penned by the same person as a note that authorities found in the millionaire sex offender's cell after he killed himself, handwriting experts say.

Three forensic document examiners who reviewed the notes at the request of The Associated Press concluded that they have or appear to have common authorship, with shared characteristics such as the same spacing, letter shapes, usage of capital letters and unique punctuation.

In the first note, made public this week, the writer states: "They investigated me for month - found nothing!!!" and talks about being able to choose the "time to say goodbye." The other note, which has been public for years, is a list of grievances about conditions at the jail, including the showers, food and "Giant Bugs."

While no one has definitively said Epstein wrote the notes, they point to his grim outlook before his death and echo some frustrations he conveyed to jail personnel about being confined in the crumbling Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan after living in luxury for decades. They also contain phrases he had used in the past.

Both notes, written in pen on notepad paper, include the underlined phrase "NO FUN" and end with double exclamation points - the first of which is bowed slightly with similar curvature. The first few words of each note are larger than the rest and each successive line slants away from the left margin.

"These are the kinds of things that would suggest that we're dealing with the same writer," said Thomas Vastrick, the president of the American Society of Questioned Document Examiners.

"They are written by the same person," said Bart Baggett, who founded the forensic analysis firm Handwriting Experts Inc. and has testified in court as an expert witness more than 130 times.

"Both of those documents have the same author," said Grace Warmbier, who worked for a decade for the New York City Police Department performing document examinations and handwriting analysis.

None of the experts were able to say definitively that Epstein wrote the notes, in part because there are few if any confirmed examples of his handwriting in the millions of pages of records the Justice Department recently released on the late financier.

In addition to the two jail notes, Warmbier and Vastrick also reviewed writing samples from the former cellmate, Nicholas Tartaglione, including part of a note he sent to the New York Daily News in 2019 in which he denied any involvement in Epstein's death. Warmbier ruled out Tartaglione as the author, finding significant dissimilarities. Vastrick said Tartaglione's samples had wide variation and at least some similarities that required further examination; he would not eliminate Tartaglione as a potential writer but also did not suggest Tartaglione was the writer.

The article further reports: Tartaglione claimed he discovered the note in a book in his cell after Epstein was found on July 23, 2019, on the floor with a strip of bedsheet around his neck. According to a chronology in the Justice Department files, Tartaglione told his lawyer about the note four days after the suspected July 23 attempt. There is no indication that anyone alerted jail officials or Epstein's representatives. The note later was submitted in Tartaglione's criminal case and placed under seal; it was not mentioned in government reports on Epstein's death and did not surface in Justice Department files. The other note, found after Epstein's death, was shown on CBS's 60 Minutes in 2020 and is in the files.

Beyond handwriting analysis, AP reports that the phrasing could give clues to authorship. The note contained the line "Watcha want me to do - Bust out cryin!!" and Epstein previously referenced that line, mimicking dialogue from a 1931 Little Rascals film, in three emails included in Justice Department files, including one sent to his brother four months before jail.

Limitations: The article is submitted as an adverse and limiting source. It supports possible common authorship with another note associated with Epstein, but it does not definitively authenticate Epstein as author and compares the released note to a grievance note, not to a conceded suicide note.