UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT, SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, United States v. Nicholas Tartaglione, Case No. 16-CR-832 (KMK), ORDER, Kenneth M. Karas, U.S.D.J.

The order states that the New York Times requested unsealing of certain materials, including an alleged "suicide note purportedly authored by Jeffrey Epstein, recovered by . . . Tartaglione, and then reportedly submitted by . . . Tartaglione's attorneys in this case (the 'Note')." The court determined the Times' request to unseal the Note should be granted.

Background in the order states Tartaglione was briefly cellmates with Jeffrey Epstein at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan. The Times sought access to: "A suicide note purportedly authored by Jeffrey Epstein, recovered by Mr. Tartaglione, and then reportedly submitted by Mr. Tartaglione's attorneys in this case (the 'Note')." The order states the Times pointed to a DOJ-released document referencing the Note and that, according to that document, the Note predated Jeffrey Epstein's death by over a week and predated Epstein being placed in a different cell from Tartaglione.

The order states that as to the Note, the court concluded it was subject to the presumption of public access because the Note was submitted in connection with a Curcio hearing and was at least relevant to judicial decision-making. The court concluded no party identified a competing consideration justifying sealing the Note, and that Defendant's repeated public discussion about the Note's contents constituted waiver of attorney-client privilege as to the document.

The order concluded: "For the reasons set forth above, the Times' request is granted as to the Note. The Clerk of Court is respectfully directed to docket a copy of the material that was placed in the vault on May 20, 2021, and to unseal the original material placed in the vault on May 20, 2021." The order is dated May 6, 2026, White Plains, New York, and signed by Kenneth M. Karas, United States District Judge.