Associated Press article headline: "Epstein cellmate says he found a suicide note. Justice Department says it's seeing it for first time." Canonical URL in page metadata: https://apnews.com/article/jeffrey-epstein-suicide-note-5297f49736e625a06d0db3c7b737b997. Article metadata states datePublished 2026-05-07T21:08:14Z and dateModified 2026-05-07T23:34:01Z. The metadata description says: "A note attributed to Jeffrey Epstein in his first suspected jail suicide attempt in 2019 has been made public. But that's not because of the U.S. Justice Department's release of records related to the sex offender. The note was released Wednesday as part of an unrelated case involving a man who shared a cell with Epstein in Manhattan. The government says it never had the note. Nicholas Tartaglione says he discovered the note in a book he was reading after Epstein was found in their cell with a strip of bedsheet around the financier's neck. Epstein was found dead in his own separate cell a few weeks later."

AP image caption in the page states: "This document, released Thursday, May 7, 2026, by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, shows a note that Jeffrey Epstein's former cellmate said he found after Epstein's reported suicide attempt in July 2019. (U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York via AP)."

Article body extract: "A note that Jeffrey Epstein's former cellmate claims to have found after the financier's first suspected jail suicide attempt in 2019 has been made public - not because of the Justice Department's release of records related to the sex offender, but as part of an unrelated case. The government's explanation: It never had the note. 'The note has not yet been authenticated, and this is the first time DOJ is seeing it as well,' the department said Thursday when asked why it wasn't part of the voluminous Epstein files. Nicholas Tartaglione said he discovered the handwritten note in a book after the disgraced financier was found in their cell at a Manhattan federal jail with a strip of bedsheet around his neck. Epstein was subsequently moved to a different cell, where a few weeks later, he was found dead, alone, in a suicide. Tartaglione, a former police officer then facing murder charges, said he gave the note to his lawyers to protect himself against any claim that he might have harmed Epstein while they were in custody together. Epstein was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges at the time. Since 2021, the note had been in a vault in federal court in New York."