Relevant captured text from PBS NewsHour article, "Judge releases note that cellmate says he found after Epstein's suspected suicide attempt," by Michael R. Sisak and Larry Neumeister, Associated Press; published May 6, 2026 8:01 PM EDT, updated May 7, 2026 5:36 PM EDT.

The article states that a note Jeffrey Epstein's former cellmate claimed he found after Epstein's first suspected jail suicide attempt was made public Wednesday, years after being sealed and locked in a courthouse vault as part of an unrelated legal dispute.

The article states that U.S. District Judge Kenneth Karas in White Plains, New York, ordered the release of the note after The New York Times asked him last week to unseal it and other documents in a case involving Nicholas Tartaglione, and that federal prosecutors did not oppose the request.

The article reports that few people had known about the note until Tartaglione, a former police officer serving a life sentence for killing four people, mentioned it last year on writer Jessica Reed Kraus' podcast. It says Tartaglione claimed he discovered the note in a book after Epstein was found on the floor of their cell at a Manhattan federal jail on July 23, 2019, with a strip of bedsheet around his neck. That was about three weeks before Epstein was found dead in his cell in what authorities concluded was a suicide.

The article reports the note text as including: "They investigated me for month -- found nothing!!!" It says the note continued, "It is a treat to be able to choose" the "time to say goodbye," and "Watcha want me to do -- Bust out cryin!!" It reports that the note concludes, "NO FUN" and "NOT WORTH IT!!"

The article image caption identifies the note as purported to be written by Jeffrey Epstein and released by U.S. District Judge Kenneth Karas in New York City on May 6, 2026, via U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York/Handout via Reuters.

The article states: "It is unclear who wrote the note Tartaglione claimed to have found." It further states that the note was not mentioned in the lengthy government reports examining the circumstances of Epstein's death and did not surface in the Justice Department's recent release of files on Epstein.

The article states that jail records said Epstein had friction marks and skin irritation on his neck after the suspected July 23 attempt; jail officers said he was breathing heavily but responsive. One officer reported that Epstein said he believed Tartaglione had tried to kill him, according to a memo included in the Justice Department's files. It further reports that Epstein was placed on suicide watch for 31 hours and later downgraded to psychiatric observation; according to jail records, he denied trying to harm himself, told a jail psychologist that suicide was against his Jewish religion, and said he was a coward who did not like pain.

The article states that a chronology included in the files says Tartaglione told his lawyer about the note four days after the suspected July 23 attempt, and that the note was later submitted as evidence in Tartaglione's criminal case and placed under seal amid a dispute over his legal representation.

The article reports that both men were interviewed by jail personnel on July 31, 2019; Epstein said he had never had issues with Tartaglione, was not threatened by him, and did not want to make up something that was not there. Tartaglione said he had no issues being Epstein's cellmate and that on July 23 he thought Epstein was having a heart attack because his eyes were open and he appeared to be snoring.

The article states that officials found a handwritten note in Epstein's cell at the time of his death, but that it did not appear to be a suicide note; rather, officials said it appeared to be a list of grievances about conditions at the jail, including food, showers, and the presence of bugs.