UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. NICHOLAS TARTAGLIONE, Defendant. Case No. 16-CR-832 (KMK). ORDER. KENNETH M. KARAS, United States District Judge.

Relevant extracted text from official PDF order:

Nicholas Tartaglione, a former police officer at the Briarcliff Manor Police Department, was convicted of multiple murder counts related to the deaths of Martin Luna, Urban Santiago, Miguel Luna, and Hector Gutierrez, as well as Conspiracy to Distribute and Possess with Intent to Distribute Cocaine. Non-party newspaper, the New York Times, filed a request to unseal certain materials that the Times claimed were filed in this case. The court stated that, for the reasons set forth in the order, the Times' request to unseal an alleged "suicide note purportedly authored by Jeffrey Epstein, recovered by ... Tartaglione, and then reportedly submitted by ... Tartaglione's attorneys in this case (the 'Note')" should be granted. The court reserved decision on the remainder of the Times' requests.

The order's background states that while Tartaglione was awaiting trial, he was briefly cellmates with Jeffrey Epstein at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan.

On April 30, 2026, the court received a request from the Times seeking materials filed under seal, including: "A suicide note purportedly authored by Jeffrey Epstein, recovered by Mr. Tartaglione, and then reportedly submitted by Mr. Tartaglione's attorneys in this case (the 'Note')." According to the order, the Times said Defendant repeatedly referenced the Note in detail in interviews with the Times and another outlet, and pointed to a Department of Justice document referencing the Note. The order says that according to this document, the Note predated Jeffrey Epstein's death by over a week and predated Epstein being placed in a different cell from Defendant.

The court analyzed public access and concluded as to the Note that it was subject to the presumption of public access. The order states: "The Note was submitted in connection with the Curcio hearing, which involved the exercise of Article III power to make a determination as to Defendant's right to conflict-free counsel, and the Note was at least relevant to judicial decision-making, regardless of whether the Court relied on it in reaching its conclusion."

The court further concluded that the Note received a substantial presumption of public access and that public access promoted accountability and confidence in administration of justice. The order stated no party identified a competing consideration justifying sealing the Note and that Defendant's repeated public discussion about the Note's contents constituted waiver of attorney-client privilege as to the document.

The order also considered third-party privacy and concluded it did not support continued sealing of the Note. It stated that privacy interests of a deceased third party such as Jeffrey Epstein are vastly reduced and that Defendant had already repeatedly discussed the Note and asserted contents, including in a national news outlet.

As to the Note, the order concluded that continued sealing was not justified; as to other materials requested by the Times, the court reserved decision and directed proposed redactions and briefing.