Title: As Israel advances on a Syrian buffer zone, it sees peril and opportunity
Publisher: Associated Press
Byline/date: Melanie Lidman, Dec. 9, 2024
Source URL: https://www.ap.org/news-highlights/spotlights/2024/as-israel-advances-on-a-syrian-buffer-zone-it-sees-peril-and-opportunity/

Relevant extracted text from rendered article:

The Israeli military over the weekend began seizing control of a demilitarized buffer zone in Syria created as part of a 1974 ceasefire between the countries. It said the move was temporary and meant to secure its border.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday that Israeli forces were moving to control a roughly 400-square-kilometer (155-square-mile) demilitarized buffer zone in Syrian territory. The buffer zone between Syria and the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights was created by the U.N. after the 1973 Mideast war. A U.N. force of about 1,100 troops has patrolled the area since then.

On a visit Sunday to a Golan Heights hilltop overlooking Syria, Netanyahu said that because Syrian troops had abandoned their positions, Israel's move into the buffer zone was necessary as a "temporary defensive position."

U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said: "The peacekeepers at (the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force, or UNDOF) informed the Israeli counterparts that these actions would constitute a violation of the 1974 disengagement agreement, that there should be no military forces or activities in the area of separation." He added that the buffer zone was calm and UNDOF peacekeepers remained in their position.

Israeli troops began moving into the buffer zone Saturday. Foreign Minister Gideon Saar said: "(The Israeli military) took targeted and temporary control of certain areas near the border to prevent an Oct. 7 scenario from Syria," referring to Hamas' 2023 attack into Israel from Gaza.

Under the heading "Is Israel invading Syria?" AP reported: Israeli political and military leaders have stressed that the seizure of the buffer zone is temporary and not a prelude to entering other parts of Syrian territory.

AP quoted a military official: "The plan at the moment is that this is a temporary step to make sure stability is kept in the border, making sure the buffer zone is kept, and the U.N. forces can stay."

AP also quoted Carmit Valensi, a senior researcher at the Institute for National Security Studies: Israel isn't currently trying to change the border or prepare for an invasion into Syria; "Right now, it's a tactical operation, not a long-term strategy, in response to the dynamic situation in Syria."