Article title: IDF: Troops will stay in Syria buffer zone and strategic Mount Hermon as long as needed
Subtitle: Israel says move to capture territory is defensive, intended to be temporary; army says it will hold new positions until situation clears up after fall of Assad regime
By Emanuel Fabian, 9 December 2024, 5:10 pm.

Captured relevant text:
IDF troops are seen on the Syrian side of Mount Hermon, December 8, 2024. (Courtesy)

After the Israel Defense Forces on Sunday captured the Syrian side of the strategic Mount Hermon, along with a buffer zone that has existed between the countries since the 1970s, the military stressed that the move was temporary, but also acknowledged that troops would likely remain inside Syrian territory for the foreseeable future.

On Monday morning, Defense Minister Israel Katz said he had ordered the IDF to complete its takeover of the buffer zone separating Israel and Syria on the Syrian side of the border in the Golan Heights, a day after the military began its deployment there.

The 235-square-kilometer demilitarized buffer zone was established in the 1974 Agreement on Disengagement between Israel and Syria, which concluded the Yom Kippur War, and has been manned for decades by UN peacekeepers.

The IDF's 210th Bashan Regional Division began on Sunday to deploy forces to the buffer zone inside Syrian territory, including atop the Syrian side of Mount Hermon, where troops had not stepped foot for over 50 years.

The IDF said that its deployment to the buffer zone was a defensive and temporary measure amid the situation in Syria, but said that it may end up staying there for a long time, depending on the developments in the country. According to the military, troops were carrying out defensive operations to prevent any threat.

Sunday's deployment marked the first time since the 1974 agreement that Israeli forces have taken up positions in the buffer zone, inside Syrian territory.

Prime Minister Netanyahu said: "We gave the Israeli army the order to take over these positions to ensure that no hostile force embeds itself right next to the border of Israel. This is a temporary defensive position until a suitable arrangement is found."

According to the military, troops, including the Paratroopers Brigade, were being deployed to specific strategic positions in the buffer zone to prevent gunmen from being in the area.

Among the strategic positions captured by the IDF was the Syrian side of Mount Hermon, located more than 10 kilometers from the Israeli border, the furthest point in the buffer zone.

Katz said he had ordered the IDF to "complete the takeover of the buffer zone in Syria" and that overnight, troops seized additional positions in the area.