Supposed Epstein jail cell suicide note unsealed | Courthouse News Service
Josh Russell / May 6, 2026

MANHATTAN (CN) - A New York federal judge on Wednesday made public a letter purported to be a suicide note penned by the late sexual predator Jeffrey Epstein in a Manhattan jail cell in July 2019.

The article states: "Time to say goodbye," the barely legible handwritten note reads, believed to be written by Epstein prior to an unsuccessful suicide attempt in his shared cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York.

The article reports that Epstein was found dead three weeks later after his arrest on federal sex trafficking charges.

The note was reportedly found stuffed in a graphic novel by Nicholas Tartaglione, a former police officer who shared a cell with Epstein in July 2019, where Epstein was discovered with an orange cloth around his neck and bruises on his neck from the attempted hanging, and then placed on suicide watch.

The article quotes the note: "It is a treat to be able to choose one's time to say goodbye."

The article says the note, on a single page of lined notebook paper, concludes with Epstein supposedly signing off: "NO FUN - NOT WORTH IT!!"

The article reports that New York Times reporters Benjamin Weiser, Jan Ransom and Steve Eder filed a letter to the judge overseeing Tartaglione's case seeking the release of the note from Tartaglione's attorney, who had presented the note in the former police officer's drug trafficking and murder case.

The article quotes the reporters' request as stating: "Mr. Tartaglione has already divulged the contents of the note, so there is nothing left to keep secret," and "the public interest in note's disclose is immense."

The page also reports context about Epstein's later suicide, monitoring failures, Tartaglione's conviction, and related source-chain links labeled handwritten note, unsuccessful suicide attempt, arrest, seeking the release, four consecutive life sentences, 2016 quadruple homicide, and reportedly pursued.