EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20503
January 8, 2026
(Senate)
STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
S.J. Res. 98 – A Joint Resolution to Direct the Removal of United States Armed Forces from Hostilities within or against Venezuela that have not been Authorized by Congress
(Sen. Kaine, D-VA, and 25 cosponsors)

The Administration strongly opposes passage of S.J. Res. 98, a joint resolution that would direct the removal of United States Armed Forces from hostilities within or against Venezuela.

On January 3, 2026, pursuant to a request from the Attorney General, the U.S. Armed Forces conducted targeted and limited military strikes within Venezuela. These strikes were in furtherance of the successful law enforcement operation to apprehend and transport Nicolas Maduro and Cilia Flores to the United States for federal criminal prosecution.

The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York issued arrest warrants for both individuals based on grand jury indictments for their central roles in a wide-ranging conspiracy. The indictment charged Maduro with engaging in a narco-terrorism conspiracy with narco-terrorist groups, including foreign terrorist organizations, such as FARC, ELN, Tren de Aragua, the Sinaloa Cartel, and Los Zetas. The indictment charged Maduro and his wife with conspiring with others to import cocaine from Venezuela into the United States, and to arm drug traffickers with automatic weapons and destructive devices. The indictment further alleges that Maduro led the Cartel de los Soles, another designated foreign terrorist organization, and abused the institutions in Venezuela to illegitimately seize power and resources in support of a vast criminal operation. Maduro's crimes and other hostile actions have resulted in a predatory incursion into the United States, the destabilization of the Western Hemisphere, massive death and human suffering, and a substantial and ongoing danger posed to our Nation.

Maduro and Flores resided at a heavily fortified location beyond the ordinary reach of American law enforcement, protected by combat-equipped armed associates, and it was anticipated that they would resist apprehension by all available means. U.S. Armed Forces were therefore necessary to help effectuate their apprehension and transportation to the United States for criminal prosecution.

The actions of our Armed Forces have been directed by the President consistent with his inherent responsibility to protect U.S. citizens both at home and abroad; to take care that the laws are faithfully executed; to conduct the foreign relations of the United States; and in furtherance of U.S. national security and foreign policy interests, pursuant to his constitutional authority and as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive.

S.J. Res. 98 should be rejected, like the previously rejected Resolutions, as it once again fails to recognize the ongoing national security threats posed by the Maduro-led Cartel de los Soles and other violent drug-trafficking cartels.

If S.J. Res. 98 were presented to the President, his advisors would recommend that he veto the joint resolution.

* * * * * * *