Relevant extracted text from Associated Press article, "Epstein cellmate says he found a suicide note. Justice Department says it's seeing it for first time," by Ed White, AP News, May 7, 2026.

The AP article reports that a note Jeffrey Epstein's former cellmate claims he found after Epstein's first suspected jail suicide attempt was made public "not because of the Justice Department's release of records related to the sex offender, but as part of an unrelated case."

It states: "The government's explanation: It never had the note."

The article quotes the Justice Department: "The note has not yet been authenticated, and this is the first time DOJ is seeing it as well," said the department when asked why it was not part of the voluminous Epstein files.

The article reports that Nicholas Tartaglione said he found the handwritten note in a book after Epstein was found in their cell with a strip of bedsheet around his neck; Epstein was later moved and later found dead. AP reports Tartaglione said he gave the note to his lawyers to protect himself against any claim that he might have harmed Epstein.

The article states that since 2021 the note had been in a vault in federal court in New York and somehow became part of proceedings between Tartaglione and his lawyers over their representation in his murder case, with anything related to that dispute sealed because it involved attorney-client privilege.

AP reports that the New York Times petitioned Judge Kenneth Karas to release the note and that the judge agreed, citing Epstein's reduced privacy interests after death.

AP describes the note as short, hard to decipher in some places, and not authenticated. It gives the reported text in relevant part: "They investigated me for month -- found nothing!!!"; "It is a treat to be able to choose" the "time to say goodbye"; "Watcha want me to do -- Bust out cryin!!"; and "NO FUN. NOT WORTH IT!!"

AP also reports jail-record context: Epstein had friction marks and skin irritation on his neck after the suspected July 23, 2019 suicide attempt; jail officers said he was breathing heavily but responsive; Epstein told a guard Tartaglione had attacked him, then later recanted. Epstein was placed on suicide watch for 31 hours, then downgraded to psychiatric observation before his August 10, 2019 death.

The article reports that DOJ did not object to release and that Deputy U.S. Attorney Sean Buckley said the public was interested in the circumstances surrounding Epstein's death. It further reports Buckley said two DOJ lawyers were included in 2021 Tartaglione-attorney proceedings but were barred by the judge from disclosing anything from those hearings to protect attorney-client privilege, so if they saw the note, they were not allowed to tell anyone.