Title: PM Netanyahu on the Summit of Mt. Hermon: "We will stay in this important place until another arrangement is found that ensures Israel's security"
Source URL: https://www.gov.il/en/pages/event-hermon171224
Publisher: Government of Israel / Prime Minister's Office
Publish Date shown in source index: 17.12.2024

Relevant captured text from source index/web page rendering:

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, today, on the summit of Mt. Hermon, held an assessment together with Defense Minister Israel Katz, IDF Chief-of-Staff Lt.-Gen. Herzi Halevi, Head of Northern Command Ori Gordin and ISA Director Ronen Bar, in light of the fact that events in Syria are occurring at a dizzying pace and the consequences could be far-reaching. The Prime Minister received an updated operational briefing from the commanders in the field and issued directives on the continued deployment of the IDF. He commended the IDF operations in the area, and the regular and reservist fighters for organizing quickly and for the sharp and professional implementation.

Prime Minister Netanyahu: "I am here on the summit of Mt. Hermon with the Defense Minister, the IDF Chief-of-Staff, the Head of Northern Command, the Director of the ISA and senior commanders. We are holding this assessment in order to decide on the deployment of the IDF in this important place until another arrangement is found that ensures Israel's security. This is nostalgic for me. I was here 53 years ago with my soldiers in the General Staff Reconnaissance Unit. The place has not changed. It is the same place but its importance for the security of Israel has only been underscored in recent years, and especially in recent weeks with the dramatic events that have occurred below us in Syria. We will determine the best arrangement that will ensure our security."

Capture note: Python urllib direct fetch of this gov.il page on 2026-06-29 returned HTTP Error 403: Forbidden. The web search/open tool rendered/indexed the page text above.