Source: GovInfo, DCPD202501162, Office of the Federal Register / National Archives and Records Administration.
URL: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-202501162/html/DCPD-202501162.htm
Title: Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Fédération Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw
Event date: December 5, 2025.

Relevant extracted page text:
"Administration of Donald J. Trump, 2025"
"Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Fédération Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw December 5, 2025"
"[The President's remarks were joined in progress.]"

Under the section "The President's Interest in Soccer":
"Q. Should there be a special final: American—[inaudible]?"
"The President. No, but I got to meet Ronaldo the other day, came to the White House. He was fantastic. He's a handsome guy and a great guy. And my son Barron and him—and they had a big conversation. And my son loves soccer—\"football,\" as you would say. But Ronaldo is great. He's a great guy. He's got the whole package. He's a great player."
"Thank you very much. Thank you. [Inaudible]"

Additional relevant extracted page text:
"The President's Interest in Soccer"
"Q. Did you ever play soccer—or football?"
"The President. Believe it or not, I did. I did, and I loved it. I had a—I was okay. I wouldn't say—I was not Ronaldo or Messi. I was a little bit short of them. [Laughter] But——"
"Mr. Infantino. Just a little bit."
"The President. But they have a little more speed. But no, I was fine. But I loved playing soccer."

GovInfo note:
"NOTE: The President spoke at 11:13 a.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. In his remarks, he referred to Trey Yingst, chief foreign correspondent, Fox News Channel; Cristiano Ronaldo, forward for Saudi Pro League club Al-Nass and Portugal's national soccer team; and Lionel Messi, forward for Major League Soccer club Inter Miami and Argentina's national team. A reporter referred to New York State Attorney General Letitia James. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on December 8, 2025, with a corrected transcript released on January 2, 2026. Portions of these remarks could not be verified because the audio was incomplete."

GovInfo content details page also identifies category "Interviews With the News Media : Exchanges with reporters, Washington, DC," subjects including "Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup," "John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts," and "Soccer," and names including "Ronaldo, Cristiano" and "Messi, Lionel."