Source: Congressional Research Service report RL33487, Syria: Transition and U.S. Policy, updated February 26, 2026, as republished by EveryCRSReport.com.

Captured relevant excerpt from lines 389-396:

Israel also has demanded that the Syrian transitional government demilitarize three southern provinces, a demand that some Syrians have publicly protested.

As the Asad regime collapsed on December 8, 2024, Israeli military forces entered the UN Disengagement Observation Force (UNDOF) buffer zone established by the 1974 Israel-Syria Disengagement Agreement. From 1974 until Asad's ouster, most international controversy regarding control over Israel-Syria border areas focused on Israel's 1981 annexation of areas of the Golan Heights it had captured in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.

The United States recognized these Israel-controlled areas of the Golan Heights as part of Israel in 2019.

Syria's transitional authorities report that they have communicated with UNDOF officials and expressed their willingness to return Syrian state forces to areas adjacent to the UNDOF zone provided that Israel removes its force from areas within and beyond the zone.

In November 2025, President Ahmed Al Sharaa, whose family reportedly was displaced from the Golan region in 1967 and whose nom de guerre Abu Mohammed al Jolani/Jawlani/Golani during the insurgency reflected those origins, criticized what he described as Israel's "expansionist ambitions" and reiterated his government's view that "to reach a final agreement, Israel should withdraw to their pre-Dec. 8 (2024) borders." Syrian authorities reportedly have said in a letter to the U.S. government "we will not allow Syria to become a source of threat to any party, including Israel."

In a letter to the United Nations, Israel stated that it had taken "limited and temporary measures to counter any further threat to its citizens," and that the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) have deployed temporarily in a few points and in a limited capacity east of Line A. In December 2024, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told the press that Israel's seizure of control over the UNDOF zone was a "temporary defensive position until a suitable arrangement is found." Subsequent media reports suggest that the IDF has been constructing more long-term infrastructure in the UNDOF zone and beyond. In January 2025, Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said that Israeli forces intend to remain "at the top of Mount Hermon and in the security zone indefinitely to protect Golan communities, the north and all Israeli citizens."

Further Israeli strikes followed sectarian violence in May and July, including strikes in Damascus on the Syrian Ministry of Defense headquarters and near facilities associated with the Syrian presidency.